README.md, before:

# custom Ableton racks

Just stashing my racks here and adding some notes for usage.

I'm currently using Ableton 11.3.2.

## IMPACTOR RACK (a la a s d)

This one is inspired by the glorious [a s d](https://patreon.com/a_s_d) tutorials, namely [this one](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mdEl03HaNz0). In order to stack more samples on top of each others, go to the central `Sampler`instrument and click on `Zone` -- you can drop further samples there or delete some, without having to reconfigure any mappings. Just make sure all samples are distributed among the same zone (unless you want them somehow spread across the keyboard, which is also great).

## Gate_Rack_x16

This one was shared by Ana Heike on the [Lux Cache](https://www.patreon.com/luxcache) Discord and is for ›effect sidechaining‹. Their explanation was follows:

> I really like using sidechain gates to punch effects in and out on tracks to get like glitchy edits because it can cut the tail off any sort of time based effect and you can map things so you can like quickly experiment with different effect combinations using a drum rack to trigger the gates. I hated having to route the gates to the drum rack each time though. I also didn't wanted it to play the dry signal through constantly and only dip out when an effect is triggered. So I went ahead and did that. All you need to do is take the gate rack from the instrument rack and place it on whatever your target track is. Place your audio effects in front of the gates then you can use the drum rack to punch the effects in and out.

Basically, you drop the Gate Rack to a MIDI track and then you drag-drop the `SC Gates` rack in it to the end of a MIDI instrument + FX chain on another MIDI track. Then you place those FX in any of the 16 slots of `SC Gates`. You can then draw notes in your first MIDI track's 1-16 piano roll wherever you want the respective FX to happen. (You'll see that the ›DRY‹ chain of `SC Gates` has sidechain `Audio From` set to your MIDI channel. That's how that works. Perfect for messing with breakbeats.)

## GlitchySampler

That one is also not my creation. It's a glitchy ›Simpler‹ rack by [https://llllllll.co/u/Xylr](Xylr).

## Scratch

Got those from the [dnksaus Discord server](https://discord.com/channels/921897457565200384/921944150981632030/1192270832811114506).

## sOPHIE bUBBLES

...rack for Live 11 by [nuan sonar](https://nuansonar.bandcamp.com/)

## Backslap

...was made by ›The Tuning Room‹ on the Ned Rush Discord. But I think it's for Live 12 only.

## Fantasy Arps

... by Bean/Ephemeral from the Ned Rush Discord

## Phase Dry Wet Ableton 11.adg & Split Differences Ableton 11.adg

...taken from [this tutorial by 2L&L](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Nn8fBzkiGEM)

## sieve.amxd

Spectral Gate M4L device by j°̸̼̮ k] 짐김치🌠 - jimothy kimochi

## mp3glitch.py

ChatGPT-generated mp3 mangler by the same

## most of the rest

...are racks and presets I did myself - have fun!

Commit message:

add mastering chain and glows1de stuff

README.md, after:

# custom Ableton racks

Just stashing my racks here and adding some notes for usage.

I'm currently using Ableton 11.3.2.

## IMPACTOR RACK (a la a s d)

This one is inspired by the glorious [a s d](https://patreon.com/a_s_d) tutorials, namely [this one](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mdEl03HaNz0). In order to stack more samples on top of each others, go to the central `Sampler`instrument and click on `Zone` -- you can drop further samples there or delete some, without having to reconfigure any mappings. Just make sure all samples are distributed among the same zone (unless you want them somehow spread across the keyboard, which is also great).

## Gate_Rack_x16

This one was shared by Ana Heike on the [Lux Cache](https://www.patreon.com/luxcache) Discord and is for ›effect sidechaining‹. Their explanation was follows:

> I really like using sidechain gates to punch effects in and out on tracks to get like glitchy edits because it can cut the tail off any sort of time based effect and you can map things so you can like quickly experiment with different effect combinations using a drum rack to trigger the gates. I hated having to route the gates to the drum rack each time though. I also didn't wanted it to play the dry signal through constantly and only dip out when an effect is triggered. So I went ahead and did that. All you need to do is take the gate rack from the instrument rack and place it on whatever your target track is. Place your audio effects in front of the gates then you can use the drum rack to punch the effects in and out.

Basically, you drop the Gate Rack to a MIDI track and then you drag-drop the `SC Gates` rack in it to the end of a MIDI instrument + FX chain on another MIDI track. Then you place those FX in any of the 16 slots of `SC Gates`. You can then draw notes in your first MIDI track's 1-16 piano roll wherever you want the respective FX to happen. (You'll see that the ›DRY‹ chain of `SC Gates` has sidechain `Audio From` set to your MIDI channel. That's how that works. Perfect for messing with breakbeats.)

## GlitchySampler

That one is also not my creation. It's a glitchy ›Simpler‹ rack by [https://llllllll.co/u/Xylr](Xylr).

## Scratch

Got those from the [dnksaus Discord server](https://discord.com/channels/921897457565200384/921944150981632030/1192270832811114506).

## sOPHIE bUBBLES

...rack for Live 11 by [nuan sonar](https://nuansonar.bandcamp.com/)

## Backslap

...was made by ›The Tuning Room‹ on the Ned Rush Discord. But I think it's for Live 12 only.

## Fantasy Arps

... by Bean/Ephemeral from the Ned Rush Discord

## Phase Dry Wet Ableton 11.adg & Split Differences Ableton 11.adg

...taken from [this tutorial by 2L&L](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Nn8fBzkiGEM)

## sieve.amxd

Spectral Gate M4L device by j°̸̼̮ k] 짐김치🌠 - jimothy kimochi

## mp3glitch.py

ChatGPT-generated mp3 mangler by the same

## glows1de stuff

stuff by [glows1de](https://linktr.ee/glows1de), which I couldn't try, because they're for Ableton Live 12

## Meister

...is a simple Mastering Chain, which I built after [this tutorial](https://www.ambmusic.net/blog/2019/8/31/ableton-live-mastering-chain)

## most of the rest

...are racks and presets I did myself - have fun!
